# Continuous-Integration-Continuous-Delivery

In business or technical terms describe your understanding of continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD)? What are some tools that are used for this and why are they used? 

---------------


Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) is a software development pipeline that promotes consistent automation and monitoring through the building test and deployment of applications, bridging the gap between development and operations team. CI/CD ensures incremental alteration of code occurs in frequency iterations and its delivery is produced sustainability, aligning with its demand. The CI/CD pipeline’s focus on the automation of tasks increases early error discovery, decreases human error, which prior to CI/CD required developer intervention and therefore significantly increases productivity. In order to successfully implement CI/CD, tools are required to automate development, deployment and testing sections of the process, including Jenkins, Gitlab, AWS Codedeploy and Bamboo. 

The CI/CD pipeline consists of 2 aspects, continuous integration and continuous delivery. Continuous integration is the software engineering practice of integration code altering with increasing frequency into a shared repository, which through automation will be tested and built. Through automated tests including integration testing and unit testing, eros will be ideinited at a much earlier stage of the development process than without continuous integration, lowering the effects of these errors, enabling developers to resolve them much more efficiently. Priori to continuous integration, these tests were a costly and tedious engineering activity performed manually by developers which led to human errors and a decrease in productivity. Additionally, when teams merged codes into the repository, it would be significantly varied from the developers baseline which resulted in the integration time outgrowing the time required to create the code changes. However, now with the implementation of continuous integration and therefore consistent automation, this issue has been notably minimised as altered code is immediately implemented with the project. The main components within continuous integration include deliver and compile, perform unit testing, integrate with the databases, perform pre-production development, perform functional testing and generate reports. Continuous delivery, the second aspect of the CI/CD pipeline, works in following continuous integration which presents code alteration to the production environment with short cycles. Through automation , developers are able to build, test and deploy software at a much higher rate and frequency. Each code alteration that underwent continuous integration and has been committed, will automatically trigger a flow that builts, tests and deploy the updates. Continuous delivery as a practice is highly beneficial as whenever code needs to be deployed, the software has already been automatically built and therefore can be deployed into the production environment at any time. The decision to deploy the software to the production environment is with the developer. Continuous delivery as a  practice enables development teams to build, test and deploy software at such high rates within small cycles, which encourages incremental updates rather than the framework that was previously used where tasks were completed in one stage. As a result of the continuous deliveries focus on automation, there is a significant reduction in risks of delivery, time and costs as incremental changes to application are enabled. 

Links to Relevant Sources 

https://www.infoworld.com/article/3271126/what-is-cicd-continuous-integration-and-continuous-delivery-explained.html

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OSzrpgogQOM

https://codefresh.io/learn/ci-cd/
